Hey everyone, welcome to part three of
the stock market data analysis project.
So, in the last video we went
over correlations on stocks and
a percent changes and daily returns.
And analyzing that.
So now I'm gonna show you
how to use C-Borne and
Pandas to make it really easy to
repeat comparison analysis for
every possible combination of
stocks in our technology portfolio.
We're looking at Amazon, Apple,
Microsoft and Google right now and
C-Borne allows us to create a great
comparison analysis plot using pair plot.
So let's go ahead and dive into that.
So, if you remember,
let's just look at our tech_rets.head.
So we have the daily returns for
Apple, Amazon, Google,
and Microsoft in our data frame.
So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna
call C-Borne, and then call pairplots.
And then I'm gonna pass the data frame.
Something I'm gonna do though is,
I'm gonna drop all the NAN values,
the null values.
Just basically dropping that first row.
So there's no error there, so
there's no missing data points.
Let's go ahead and run it.
It takes a little bit but we have it here.
So now, this is really awesome.
You have a histogram of
every stock's daily return.
There you go.
That's on a diagonal, which is basically
the same plot we did earlier up here.
So, you have a histogram on the diagonal,
and
then on the upper triangle,
if you will, and the lower triangle.
You have the correlation scatter plots.
And, here you can get
kind of a visual analysis
of which stocks' returns were
correlated and which ones weren't.
So just by eyeballing it here,
we can see the relationships here,
and a quick glance shows an interesting
correlation between Google and
Amazon, so looks like it's,
this is Amazon, this is Google.
We're definitely seeing some
sort of correlation here.
So it might be interesting to
investigate that individual comparison.
So while the simplicity of just calling
sns.pairplot in your data frame is
super fantastic.
If we want some more control,
we can call sns.pairgrid and we can
get really good control of the figure.
So, we can say what kind of
plots go on the diagonal,
what goes on the upper triangle,
what goes on the lower triangle.
And here you can really utilize
the full power of C-Borne.
So here's just the quick and
dirty way, pair plot.
Super simple and
you get an awesome figure out of it.
Let's dive deeper and see how we can
really control our figure using C-Borne.
So I'm gonna create a figure
called returns_fig,
and this will just be
the name of my figure.
So, I'm gonna set up our figure
by naming it returns_fig,
and I'm gonna call pair
plot on the data frame.
So, I'm sorry,
pair grid on the data frame.
We called pair plot earlier,
now we're gonna call PairGrid,
and this is just what pair
plot is built on top of so,
we're doing almost like a pair
plot by manually doing it by hand.
So I call my tech_rets dropping
all the NA null values.
So that's my figure, just a pair grid, so
I'm going to grab my figure and
pass three methods on it.
I'm gonna pass map upper,
map lower and map diagonal.
So, using map_upper method,
I can decide what I
want the upper triangle
of that pair grid plot to look like.
So, above the diagonal.
I'm gonna have it be a scatter plot.
So I'm gonna say plt.scatter.
And I'll have the color be purple.
And you can pass any arguments
that you would usually pass for
a scatter plot here.
So we've mapped the upper.
And let's go ahead and
map the lower triangle in the figure.
So, we call our figure
returns_fig.map_lower and
in this case,
I'm going to have it be a C-Born KDE plot.
I'll set a color map,
cmap, equal to cool_d.
So if this is a bit confusing to you,
go ahead and review KDE plots in C-Born.
Those data visualization lectures.
And I'll break this down once
we get to see the actual plot.
And then finally, we'll define the
diagonal as a series of histogram plots.
So returns_fig.map_diag for diagonal.
I'm going to call it as plot.hist and
I'll specify some more bins.
So I'll specify 30 bins,
instead of the fewer amount of
bins we saw with the pair plot.
Let's go ahead and run this.
Might be a little slow cuz it's
doing quite a bit of work.
Great.
And there you have it.
So now you have full control.
You have KDE plots on the lower left.
30 bin histograms on the diagonal and
scatter plots on the upper right,
so this is really awesome.
Let's go ahead and break down,
real quickly, what we did.
So on the map upper,
remember we said plt.scatter, and
here's your purple scatter plots.
On the lower, we called a C-Born KDE
plot and chose a color map cool_d
which is the same as the cool,
it's just a darker version of it.
And here, you can see your KDE plots.
And then for the diagonal,
we just call the histogram with 30 bins.
And there you have full control
over what goes into the diagonal,
the upper map, and
the lower map of your figure.
So that's really freaking awesome,
if I do say so myself.
So, we could have also analyzed the
correlation of the closing prices using
this exact same technique.
And what I mean by that is, remember,
this tech_rets were the daily returns, but
we can also do this exact same plot for
correlations between the closing prices.
So we kind of saw there was a little
bit of correlation between Amazon and
Google as far as their daily returns.
You can see it really clearly
here on this KDE plot.
So I'm gonna copy and paste all this.
But now, I'm going to set up for
the closing prices.
So instead of having the tech returns,
I'm gonna say closing_df as my DataFrame.
I'll leave everything else the same
except for that DataFrame.
Go ahead and run it.
And now we're gonna be able to see some
correlations between the closing prices,
not the daily change in the prices.
So again, here you have your histograms of
the closing prices for each of the stocks.
Let's see if we can see any correlations.
This one really jumps out
at me right here, and
this is the correlation between Apple, and
if we scroll down here, and Microsoft.
And you can see it here
in the KDE plot as well.
Really interesting correlation here.
It'd be nice to maybe individually
check that out if you wanted to.
So, if we wanted to see
the actual numerical values of
correlation between all the stocks, we can
do a classic corrplot, correlation plot.
We saw that in the data
visualization lectures as well.
So let's go ahead and use C-Born for
a quick correlation plot for
the daily returns.
So sns.corrplot is how we
call our correlation plots.
And I'm gonna call it
on the daily returns.
Remember to drop any
null values off that one.
And I'll set annot or annotations equal
to true so I can see the numbers.
So, I run this and now I can actually
see the numerical values for
the correlations between
the daily returns.
So Amazon and Google here have
the strongest correlation of 0.6, and
if we scroll back up, remember we
kind of predicted that visually.
We saw Amazon here
seemed to be strongly correlated
to Google with that scatter plot.
So that's great, and we can also do
the same thing for the closing prices.
We'll say sns.corrplots on that
closing_df, annot equal to true.
And, here we can see again,
some strong correlations, it looks like,
between Apple and Amazon.
Or, Apple and Microsoft,
have some strong correlations.
And we saw that here, Apple and Microsoft
seemed to be strongly correlated.
Okay, great.
So, just like we suspected
in our pair plots and
pair grids,
we can see numerical values for
the strongest correlations of the daily
stock returns and their closing prices.
And it's also interesting to
see that technology companies
are all positively correlated,
which kinda makes sense.
You would intuitively think that all
the technology stocks would have some sort
of positive correlation.
Great.
So, now that we've done some daily return
analysis, we're gonna go ahead and
look deeper into actual risk analysis.
So I'll close this video off here and
in the next video,
we'll dive deeper into risk analysis.
Great.
Thanks and I'll see you there.